<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="electric_motor_safety_steps">
    <title>Steps to Safely Disconnect and Handle the Electric Components</title>
    <shortdesc>This topic outlines the critical steps necessary to safely disconnect and handle the
        electric components of the motor.</shortdesc>

    <body>
        <section>
            <title>Introduction</title>
            <p>Working with electric motors requires caution and adherence to safety protocols to
                prevent accidents and ensure proper maintenance. Follow these steps carefully to
                disconnect and handle electric components safely.</p>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Safety Steps</title>
            <ol>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Power Down:</b> Ensure the motor is completely powered down. Turn off the
                        main power switch and disconnect the motor from any power sources.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Lockout/Tagout:</b> Implement the lockout/tagout procedure to ensure that
                        the motor cannot be accidentally powered on while maintenance is being
                        performed.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Verify Absence of Voltage:</b> Use a voltage tester to confirm that there
                        is no electrical energy in the motor or its components</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Discharge Capacitors:</b> Identify and discharge all capacitors within the
                        system to eliminate the risk of electric shock from stored energy.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Use Insulated Tools:</b> Always use tools with insulated handles rated for
                        the appropriate voltage when working with electrical components.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Wear Protective Gear:</b> Wear insulated gloves and safety goggles to
                        protect yourself from potential electrical hazards.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Disconnect Wiring:</b> Carefully disconnect all wiring from the motor.
                        Label the wires if necessary to ensure correct reassembly.</p>
                </li>
                <li>
                    <p><b>Store Components Safely:</b> Place all disconnected components in a safe,
                        dry location to avoid damage and contamination.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Conclusion</title>
            <p>Following these safety steps will help ensure that maintenance on electric motors is
                conducted safely and efficiently. Always adhere to manufacturer guidelines and local
                safety regulations.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</topic>
