<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="gardenPreparation">
    <title>Things to do in the garden in spring</title>
    <body>
        
            <p>In spring, there a many things to be done in the garden.</p>
        
    
        <p>An appreciation of the conditions under which bulbs grow in nature is of
            considerable help in understanding their needs in
            cultivation<indexterm>general<indexterm>care<indexterm>cultivation</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>,
            but is by no means all-sufficient. When plants are grown away from their native
            homes-and perhaps are accommodated in pots indoors-they may respond to quite
            different soils, temperatures, moisture conditions, etc., than those to which
            they are subjected in the
            wild.<indexterm>tasks<indexterm>preparation</indexterm></indexterm>
        </p>
        <ol id="steps_uc1_bzm_vcc">
            <li>
                Handle bulbs carefully. Any scarred or punctured bulb is more susceptible
                to decay or
                infestation.<indexterm>general<indexterm>planting</indexterm></indexterm>
            </li>
            <li>
                Make sure that the <b>soil</b> is the <i>proper</i> one. This might be hard
                to achieve, but generally an earth midway between sand and clay and
                containing a generous measure of organic matter is what most plants
                want.
            </li>
            <li>
                All plants need <b>watering</b>, but you should also provide good drainage.
                An overabundance of water around bulbs during the dormant period is
                particularly harmful. 
            </li>
            <li>
                Plants respond to fertile soil, but <b>fertilizers</b> must not be used
                carelessly. Improper dosage can do more harm than good.
            </li>
            <li>
                When dealing with <b>insects</b> and <b>diseases</b>, proper diagnosis of
                the trouble is of primary importance.
            </li>
        </ol>
        
        <p><b>Pruning</b> is the
            process<indexterm>tasks<indexterm>pruning</indexterm></indexterm> of
            removing certain above-ground elements from a plant; in landscaping this process
            usually involves
            <indexterm>tasks<indexterm>preparation</indexterm></indexterm>removal of
            diseased, non-productive, or otherwise unwanted portions from a plant. In
            nature, certain meteorological conditions such as wind, snow or seawater mist
            can conduct a when for natural pruning process. The purpose of anthropomorphic
            pruning is to shape the plant by controlling or directing plant growth, to
            maintain the health of the plant, or to increase the yield or quality of flowers
            and fruits.</p>
        <p>In general the smaller the wound (smaller the branch that is cut) the less harm
            to the tree. It is therefore typically better to formative prune the tree when
            juvenile than try to cut off large branches on a mature tree.</p>
        <p><?oxy_comment_start author="John" timestamp="20120510T110753+0300" comment="A list of tools required for prunning should be also provided to the reader (like: 
Rope Saws, Pole Prunner and Lopper,  Folding Prunner, Portable Buck Saws)."?>Follow
            these simple steps:<?oxy_comment_end?></p>
        
        <ol id="steps_zp3_bzm_vcc">
            <li>Begin by cutting out all the dead branches.</li>
            <li>Remove all tangled or crossed over branches. This allows air to circulate
                and reduces bug and fungi infestation. </li>
            <li>Take your time! Work comfortably and do not make shortcuts when cutting
                stems. Use good quality, sharp tools.</li>
            <li>Clean up the area.
                <?oxy_comment_start author="Mary" timestamp="20120510T110831+0300" comment="Burning the pest infested branches should be done under supervision. Please mention this."?>Burn
                all pest infested branches<?oxy_comment_end?>. </li>
        </ol>
        
        
    </body>
</topic>
